#Week5reading-response

***Application of using data for prediction:***

1.	The prediction of the number of future diagnosis of COVID-19 and possible number of casualties given by CDC in every country based on current data about the morality rate and spread rate around the world.

2.	The prediction of consumer’s needs made by corporation based on collected data of users such as shopping history, search history and browse history to prompt different ads and sales strategies for audience online.

3.	AIs predict suicide attempts of online users based on data of tweets, browse history and moments.

***Thoughts:***

In terms of the prediction of the spread and casualties of an epidemic, such prediction is normally built upon the current data about the disease and different models supported by algorithm. There is no doubt that such prediction is of great importance for a region, a country or a whole world to fight against the epidemic as “a collective entity”. However, it should also be noticed that we are also protecting ourselves from the disease on “an individual level” too. How the data that supported the prediction came in to being may be unclear and not applicable for each individual. As the article “What Statistics Can and Can’t Tell Us About Ourselves”introduces, making individual predictions from collective characteristics is dangerous. For a country as a whole, the predicted morality number can be either too high that calls for further extreme actions or considered as “acceptable”losses. However, for each individual the predicted morality number is blurry because every case is a different case and can’t be represented by average. Thus, individuals need to stay rational towards prediction about epidemic for a collective entity and keep in mind that though these sorts of prediction can be helpful, it doesn’t work for all cases and every individual.

Nowadays it’s almost no surprise that apps like Taobao are collecting your data and selling it to corporations to prompt personalized ads based on their prediction about consumers’consumption ability and needs. However, one recent news about some products on Taobao that are sold at different prices to different people based on the sellers’prediction about the consumers’need and level of craving of the product still surprises me. Apparently even though the product is said to offer no discount, when users log in different accounts, or change the platform from an apple phone to a Huawei phone, the prices of the product on the site change. Such prediction is done based on the leaked data of the users and algorithms to predict the correlation between the users’likeliness to buy the product and the price of the product. Personally, I find such a prediction is an immoral abuse of data and calls for strong legal regulations.

I actually think it’s pretty cool that there are people with the incentives to use AI to predict suicide attempt based on social media posts and browse history. I don’t think it would be as controversial as crime machine like the CompStat, but at the same time, I also don’t expect it to be that accurate. The search history could simply be users’ attempt to research, and the posts can also be a means to draw attention. It’s unreasonable to ask the machine to decide whether or not the case is an attempt suicide based on past cases and data and could result in fatal negligence. Because again, not all cases are represented by past data. Prediction given by data can indeed offer assistance, but in the end, currently it should still be people who make the final decision.
