#Surveillance Capitalism

Zuboff defines “Surveillance Capitalism” as the commodification of private personal data gained by Internet companies in the process of offering service for their users. She states that the intention behind the Internet corporations’ act of collecting their users’ data goes beyond the innocent attempt to improve the user experience, rather, tech corporations aim to exploit all the surplus value of the data they collected. They try to get as much data as they can and then combine these data with the technology of machine learning to produce prediction for customer behavior. In the process of collecting data, using data to produce prediction, and selling prediction to ads companies, Internet corporations accumulate more and more wealth and power, leaving the users to grow more and more vulnerable and powerless.

During the talk, Zuboff mentions that “Surveillance Capitalism” creates asymmetries of knowledge and information hierarchy which erodes democracy and individual welfare. Her statement sparks associations with some of my own experience. Indeed, the Internet corporation knows so much about me, yet I know nothing about them. For instance, after I searched for recommendations for hotels or tourist attraction in Japan on Weibo, the plane tickets to Tokyo or Osaka was pushed to the front page at ticket selling app in my phone, the price of which all went up for about hundreds of RMB compared to the same plane ticket in my father’s phone on the same app. The "Surveillance Capitalism" puts the users at an extremely vulnerable and ignorant position.

In addition, as Zuboff explains, the idea of "if you have nothing to hide, you have nothing to worry about" is also a complete myth. Zuboff talks about how the Surveillance corrputs the autonamy and "the will to will". I totally agree with her. Even if one might say that you don't necessary need to express your free will on the Internet, or online social media, after all, there are always other option like pens and paper, public speech and stuff. However, "Surveillance Capitalism" is also influencing on the way we think. If the corporations decides what we read, it also decides how we think and what we think. People today are likely to depend to much on the information gained online that it's very dangerous if they think that those information are "raw" and "whole". "Surveillance Captalism" can striangle the idea of revolution or free will at birth. 
