# Response

The potential of big data to be used for political control has been warned by researchers like Zuboff for many times. Cases like the Cambridge Analytica’s involvement in the 2016 US election have shown exactly how people’s personal data could be extracted and exploited by capitalists through invisible surveillance for the companies to make profits at the cost of human right and democracy. Companies like Facebook collect their users’ data and commercialize them without the users’ consent or even awareness, which not only invades their users’ privacy but also make them vulnerable and the target of political manipulation.

When organizations like Cambridge Analytica have access to what people browse and write on the social media, they are close to have access to what people think and what people believe.When these organizations have access to alter what people browse online, they’re close to manipulate and fabricate what people think. The attempt of the wealth and the powerful to gain the ability of thought control isn’t something new in the world today. However, the access to the big data has made everything way easier. People no longer need to burn books and bury scholars to achieve thought control. Instead, they can buy or hack their way into people’s mind and manipulate their thoughts by categorizing people basing on the data they have and feeding the people with the information as they wish. Such simplification could result in catastrophic outcome, as is argued by James Scoutt. Whether companies like Facebook are the victim that got their data hacked or an active part that sell the data by their own choice doesn’t matter that much, the fact that their data are leaked shows how dangerous their act of surveillance is. Even though they promise now not to let this sort of thing happen again, how much can we truly believe them? The next time these sorts of things happen, will we even notice?
